# NAMD
Improving the accuracy and speed of virtual drug screening using NAMD

As a result of our current research carried out within the framework of the REG-2022R03-224 EuroHPC project on the HPC Vega supercomputer by using VINI, a novel virtual drug screening tool based on KEGG disease pathways and the data from the COSMIC database. VINI is also using Rosetta and Autodock Vina tools to calculate binding energies and estimate drug effectiveness. We already came up with combinations of the existing  anti-cancer drugs showing significantly greater effectiveness on hormonally sensitive prostate cancers than currently existing therapies. Our research is continuing towards the screening of the effectiveness of mAb (monoclonal antibody) drugs.
Their binding energies, and more importantly, the impact of cancer drugs on various cancer types, have been  already calculated by VINI. VINI also has the option of comparing the computed effectiveness of cancer drugs with IC50 values from the NCI-60 database. By comparing the calculated values with the IC50 values for various types of cancer, we found the good accuracy of VINI in predicting the effectiveness of existing cancer drugs (PCC = 0.54). However this accuracy can be significantly increased if Autodock Vina and Rosetta, which VINI uses to calculate binding free energies, are replaced with NAMD molecular dynamics engine and Amber tools. The straight way to do that is to perform fast NAMD simulations, convert  obtained trajectories and files to Amber format with VMD and ParMed tools, and use Amber's MMPBSA and cpptraj utilities to compute free binding energy and entropy. 
What is also of the outmost importance is to explore the influence of the existing cancer drugs and their combinations on DNA methylation. Numerous researches already showed that the majority of complex diseases, such as neurodegenerative, malignant, and cardiovascular, arise at the epigenetic level, in which the process of DNA methylation is involved. Following this, we are participating in another EuroHPC project, EHPC-BEN-2023B11-013, on the Lumi supercomputer. Our goal there is to estimate the necessary resources for the upcoming Extreme Scale EuroHPC project, within which we will be able to more precisely calculate binding energy and entropy in a DNA methylation process using NAMD and Amber molecular dynamics in a way described above.
We observed NAMD is scaling on the Lumi CPU partition up to 4096 processor cores, and further scaling was limited due to the LUMI interconnect bootleneck. So for the more accurate virtual screening with VINI and analysis of DNA methylation, it will be necessary to achieve better scaling. This can be done with GPU accelerators. However, NAMD scaling on GPU accelerators is also limited by interconnect bandwidth. According to the previous benchmarking results at https://www.ks.uiuc.edu/Research/namd/benchmarks NAMD scales on up to 8 GPU cards. Given Jupiter's 400 Gbit/s DragonFly interconnect, we expect much better scaling on the Jupiter Booster partition by using NAMD on GPUs. 
Considering all mentioned before, we would be happy to conduct the benchmarking analysis of NAMD scaling up to 40 GPUs on Jupiter Booster module.

